.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii afd.users.5
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH AFD.USERS 5 "OCTOBER 2008" AFD "AFD"
.SH NAME
afd.users \- permissions for individual users using AFD
.SH FULL PATH
.B $AFD_WORK_DIR/etc/afd.users
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.B "afd.users"
file does not exist (or AFD fails to read it) every user may do
everything, if he as permission to write to the internal fifo's and
database. To restrict access you can enter the users name together
with the options he is allowed to use.
.LP
The file contains entries of the form:
.RS
.nf
.ft B
.sp
operator  startup, afd_ctrl, control_transfer, show_slog
.ft B
afd       all
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.LP
The user operator may startup the AFD, he may call afd_ctrl,
start/stop a transfer and view the system log, nothing else. Whereas
the user afd may do everything. The following table list and describes
what permissions are available.


.TP 22
.B startup
The user may start AFD.

.TP 22
.B shutdown
The user may shutdown AFD.

.TP 22
.B initialize
The user may initialize AFD.

.TP 22
.B resend
Resend files from show_olog dialog.

.TP 22
.B send
Send files to host not in DIR_CONFIG from show_olog and/or show_queue dialog.

.TP 22
.B view_passwd
View the password in the recipient string. If not set you will only see xxxx
in place of the password.

.TP 22
.B set_passwd
Set the password for a certain host and user.

.TP 22
.B view_data
Allows user to view the actual data distributed by AFD if it has been archived.

.TP 22
.B list_limit x
Limit the number of files in the show_xlog dialog to x. Otherwise these process might
consume to much memory since they use the list widget.

.TP 22
.B show_slog
View the system log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_elog
View the event log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_tlog
View the transfer log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_tdlog
View the transfer debug log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_rlog
View the receive log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_ilog
View the input log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_olog
View the output log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_dlog
View the delete log dialog.

.TP 22
.B show_queue
See what files are currently being queued on input, time and or output.

.TP 22
.B delete_queue
Allows user to delete file from the queue. If you set this option then you must
also set the above option show_queue.

.TP 22
.B edit_hc
Use the edit_hc dialog.

.TP 22
.B afd_ctrl
View the afd_ctrl dialog.

.TP 22
.B rafd_ctrl
View the afd_ctrl dialog via mon_ctrl dialog.

.TP 22
.B dir_ctrl
View the dir_ctrl dialog.

.TP 22
.B disable_dir
Disable a certain directory monitored by AFD.

.TP 22
.B rescan
Rescan a certain directory. Only useful for directories where time option is
set in [dir options].

.TP 22
.B dir_info
View the dir_info dialog.

.TP 22
.B AMG_control
Start or stop process AMG, which is responsible for scanning local directories.

.TP 22
.B FD_control
Start or stop process FD, which is responsible for distributing the data.

.TP 22
.B handle_events
Allows user to handle events via afd_ctrl and/or dir_ctrl dialog.

.TP 22
.B control_queue
Start/Stop input queue. Stopping the queue means that AFD internally will
not generate any messages, but no data is lost either. All current jobs that
have a message will still be transmitted.

.TP 22
.B control_transfer
Start/Stop transfer. Stopping the transfer means that messages are still being
generated, but the FD will not distribute the files.

.TP 22
.B control_host
Start/Stop host. Stopping a host has the same effect as stopping transfer and
queue.

.TP 22
.B switch_host
Switch host if there is a secondary host.

.TP 22
.B disable
Enable or disable a host.

.TP 22
.B info
Information about each host or AFD.

.TP 22
.B view_dir_config
View how this host is configured in the DIR_CONFIG.

.TP 22
.B debug
Enable or disable debug.

.TP 22
.B trace
Enable or disable trace.

.TP 22
.B full_trace
Enable or disable full trace. Difference to trace is that this also traces
the data that is transmitted.

.TP 22
.B ctrl_delete_data
Enable/disable control of deleting data when option age-limit and/or
'delete queued files' is set.

.TP 22
.B file_dir_check
Force a a check of stale jobs in the file directory.

.TP 22
.B force_archive_check
Force process archive_check to remove files in archive directory. archive_check
does this at a fixed interval and afdcmd can be used to force a scan outside
this interval.

.TP 22
.B show_exec_stat
Allows usage of program to show and reset CPU clock times for exec/fork
statistics.

.TP 22
.B retry
Send retry command for a host.

.TP 22
.B view_jobs
View more detailed information about each current transfer.

.TP 22
.B afd_load
View afd_load dialog.

.TP 22
.B reread_dir_config
Reread DIR_CONFIG to activate any changes.

.TP 22
.B reread_host_config
Reread HOST_CONFIG to activate any changes.

.TP 22
.B reread_interface_file
Reread local_interface.list to activate any changes.

.TP 22
.B afdcmd
Use of the command line program  afdcmd to control most of the above.

.TP 22
.B afdcfg
Use of the command line program  afdcfg to enable/disable certain features in
the AFD.

.TP 22
.B mon_ctrl
View the mon_ctrl dialog.

.TP 22
.B mon_startup
Start AFD monitor (afd_mon).

.TP 22
.B mon_shutdown
Shutdown AFD monitor.

.TP 22
.B disable_afd
Disable monitoring of an AFD.

.TP 22
.B mafdcmd
Use of the command line program  mafdcmd to control the AFD monitor.


.SH AUTHOR
Holger Kiehl <Holger.Kiehl@dwd.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I "afd(1)"
.I "afdcmd(1)"
.I "afdcfg(1)"
