.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii afd.1
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH AFD 1 "AUGUST 2007" AFD "AFD"
.SH NAME
afd \- start, stop and initialize the AFD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B afd [-w
.I working directory
.B ] [-p[
.I role
.B ] [-u[
.I user
.B ]] [-abcCdhHsSvz]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With the command
.B afd
it is possible to start, stop or initialize AFD. It can also be used to
just check if AFD is active or still alive. Starting of AFD can also be
blocked with -b option.

If no parameters are supplied it will check if AFD is already running,
if not it will be started and it will start the afd_ctrl dialog.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -a
only start AFD
.IP -b
blocks starting of AFD
.IP -c
only check if AFD is active
.IP -C
check if AFD is active, if not start it
.IP -d
only start afd_ctrl dialog
.IP -h
only check for heartbeat, ie. is AFD still alive
.IP -H
check if heartbeat is active, if not start AFD
.IP -i
initialize AFD by deleting the relevant files in fifodir and messages
directory
.IP -I
initialize AFD by deleting the relevant files in fifodir, messages,
files, archive and log directory
.IP -r
remove blocking startup of AFD
.IP -s
shutdown AFD
.IP -S
silent shutdown AFD
.IP -v
Just print the version number.
.IP -z
set shutdown bit, can be used to shutdown AFD from another system where
AFD is not running but has mounted $AFD_WORK_DIR/fifodir
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP AFD_WORK_DIR
The work directory of the AFD to be configured by
.BR afd .
Overridden by the
.B -w
option.
.SH AUTHOR
Holger Kiehl <Holger.Kiehl@dwd.de>
