.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii afdcmd.1
.\"
.\"  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"  (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"  GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"  along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\"  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.TH AFDCMD 1 "OCTOBER 2008" AFD "AFD"
.SH NAME
afdcmd \- send commands to the AFD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B afdcmd [-w
.I working directory
.B ] [-p[
.I role
.B ]] [-u[
.I user
.B ]] [-aAbBdeEgGfFikopqQrRstTvWXYZ]
.I hostname|directory|position
.SH DESCRIPTION
With the command
.B afdcmd
it is possible to issue most commands that can be issued with
the afd_ctrl and dir_ctrl dialog on a per host or directory basis.
.SH FSA OPTIONS
.IP -q
start the input queue
.IP -Q
stop the input queue
.IP -t
start transfer
.IP -T
stop transfer
.IP -g
enable delete data for host
.IP -G
disable delete data for host
.IP -e
enable host
.IP -E
disable host
.IP -s
switch host
.IP -r
retry
.IP -d
enable/disable debug
.IP -c
enable/disable trace
.IP -C
enable/disable full trace
.IP -X
toggle enable/disable host
.SH FRA options
.IP -b
enable directory
.IP -B
disable directory
.IP -R
rescan directory
.IP -W
toggle enable/disable directory
.SH General options
.IP -f
start FD
.IP -F
stop FD
.IP -a
start AMG
.IP -A
stop AMG
.IP -Y
start/stop AMG
.IP -Z
start/stop FD
.IP -k
force file dir check
.IP -i
reread local interface file
.IP -o
show exec statistics
.IP -p
force archive check
.IP -v
Just print the version number.
.SH FILES
.IP $AFD_WORK_DIR/etc/afd.users
The AFD user configuration file giving each user certain permission. See
.BR afd.users (5)
for further details.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP AFD_WORK_DIR
The work directory of the AFD to be configured by
.BR afdcmd .
Overridden by the
.B -w
option.
.SH AUTHOR
Holger Kiehl <Holger.Kiehl@dwd.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR afdcfg (1)
